PROJ-109 - New uppaal model described (#79)
SW805F20/report: sections/sprint-4/updated-uppaal.tex

> \section{Updated UPPAL}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\section{Updating the \uppaal model}
```

> \section{Updated UPPAL}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\section{Updated \uppall}
```

As mentioned in \autoref{sec:update-network-protocol} the approach to handling the network data has changed from being purely UDP to a combination of UDP and TCP.

> This lead to the previous \uppaal model specified in \autoref{sec:sprint3-uppaal} being outdated and that it had to be updated to fit the new requirements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This led to the previous \uppaal model specified in \autoref{sec:sprint3-uppaal} being outdated, and that it had to be updated to fit the new requirements.
```

\\
Additionally, the previous model focused mostly on the flow of the program and did not properly take the network part of the system into account.

> In this new model, the system will consist of four parts: The host, which is meant to represent the Python program that the game facilitator uses, an arbitrary number of clients who have connected to the game, and the UDP and TCP connection between those.

Reviewer 2: hvad er forskellen på en part og en template?

\subsection{System declarations}

> \begin{uppaalcode}[caption={System declarations}, label={lst:uppaal4:systemdecl}]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
\begin{uppaalcode}[caption={System declarations}, label={lst:uppaal4:systemdecl},captionpos=b]
```

    system UDP_host, TCP_host, TCP_client, Host, Client;
\end{uppaalcode}

> Before diving into the details of the different templates, let us first get an overview of the system:\\

Reviewer 3: er sgu ikke rigtigt fan af : efterfult af linjeskift. Så vil jeg sgu hellere bare have et .

Reviewer 3: er egentligt ikke fan af sætningen generelt

> Before diving into the details of the different templates, let us first get an overview of the system:\\

Reviewer 4: Template må gerne beskrives i introduktionen

> The project consists of five templates: \uppTemp{Host}, \uppTemp{Client}, \uppTemp{TCP_client}, \uppTemp{TCP_host}, \uppTemp{UDP_host}.

Reviewer 3: hvad er et template i den her kontekst? Synes lidt at sætningen før skal slettes og det her uddybees

> The project consists of five templates: \uppTemp{Host}, \uppTemp{Client}, \uppTemp{TCP_client}, \uppTemp{TCP_host}, \uppTemp{UDP_host}.

Reviewer 2: templates burde nok forklares

As mentioned above, the \uppTemp{Host} and \uppTemp{Client} templates are meant to represent the interface that users interact with when using the system.
In this new version of the model, the inclusion of TCP clients and hosts, and a UDP host additionally allows us to model the behavior of the network aspect of the system.

% System declerations
\subsection{Global declarations}
The global declarations (seen on \autoref{lst:uppaal4:globaldecl}) for the system have two purposes: Setting game and simulation specific options, such as how many clients should be instantiated, or how long the TCP client should wait for a response before declaring the connection as timeouted.

> The \uppVar{host} variable is saved as an alias to know which space in the buffers is reserved for messages from clients to the host.

Reviewer 3: synes den her sætning er lidt malplaceret, den forklarer at det er en bufgfer men buffers bliver forklaret på den ælste linjer. måske sæt det her bagefter det?

To facilitate data transfer between the templates, the model makes use of global buffers, which are defined as int arrays.

> Each place in the array corresponds to a buffer related to a client process so that \uppProc(Client(0)) will read from the 0th index of the array, \uppProc(Client(1)) will read from the second and so on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each place in the array corresponds to a buffer related to a client process so that \uppProc(Client(0)) will read from index 0 of the array, \uppProc(Client(1)) will read from index 1 and so on.
```

Since the \uppVar{UDP_buffer} is supposed to correspond to a multicast, it is simply saved as an integer instead, which will hold the information that any client listening to the multicast will receive. 

> Finally, a series of channels are defined, which we will go into more detail about in the following subsections.

Reviewer 2: nævner det kun en gang yderligere omkring channels
hvad er en channel og hvordan bruges de

> \begin{uppaalcode}[caption={Global declarations}, label={lst:uppaal4:globaldecl}]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
\begin{uppaalcode}[caption={Global declarations}, label={lst:uppaal4:globaldecl},captionpos=b]
```

> \begin{uppaalcode}[caption={Global declarations}, label={lst:uppaal4:globaldecl}]

Reviewer 2: Hvad er C i figurene

The template seen in \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-host} can be divided into three sections.
In the first section the host waits for the clients to connect through TCP.
Everytime a \uppTemp{Client} has connected the Host receives a \uppIn{TCP_client_connected} synchronisation and \uppVar{connected_client} is incremented.
When all of the \uppTemp{Clients} have connected the \uppTemp{Host} moves on the next section.
In this section the \uppTemp{Host} uses the \uppOut{TCP_send} synchronisation to notify each \uppTemp{Client} that the game is starting through TCP.
Finally the \uppTemp{Host} is in-game and continuously sends messages to the \uppTemp{Clients}.
This is done through either \uppOut{TCP_send} synchronisation or \uppOut{UDP_send} synchronisation which are the TCP and UDP channels respectively.
\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{sprint4/Host.png}
    \caption{The Host template of the \uppaal model.}
    \label{fig:sprint4-uppaal-host}
\end{figure}

> \begin{uppaalcode}[caption={local Host declarations}, label={lst:sprint-4-host-code}]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
\begin{uppaalcode}[caption={local Host declarations}, label={lst:sprint-4-host-code},captionpos=b]
```

int connected_clients = 0;
int local_TCP_buffer;
int i = 0;
\end{uppaalcode}

% Client
\subsection{Client template}
Like the \uppTemp{Host} template, the \uppTemp{Client} has a local declaration for saving the data it reads from the global buffer.
Since it is desirable to have a variable amount of instances, the template has an \uppType{id_t} parameter called \uppVar{id}, to allow instantiating multiple client processes.

> The \uppTemp{Client} has four primary locations, as seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-client}, which correspond to the states that the actual implementation can be in.

Reviewer 3: hvad er en primary location? ift figuren er der vel 5 vertices så ved ikke helt hvad de 4 indikerer

Reviewer 3: hvad er en vertex med C i? kan se at de 4 lokationer nol svarer til de røde navne i figuren

These four can be split into two groups\\
The \uppLoc{Initial} location which is the state of the client before it attempts to connect to a host, \uppLoc{Connecting} for when it is connecting to a hosted game instance, and the \uppLoc{Lobby} connection for when the connection has been established, but the game has not yet started.
Finally, there is the \uppLoc{InGame} location, which is where the client will be located most of the time during the simulation. 
This indicates that the client is now in a game, and can continuously receive information about the game state from the host either via UDP or TCP.
\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{sprint4/Client.png}
    \caption{The Client template of the \uppaal model.}
    \label{fig:sprint4-uppaal-client}
\end{figure}

% TCP
\subsection{TCP host and client templates}

> The \uppTemp{TCP_Host} and \uppTemp{TCP_Client} were designed such that there will be a process of each for each client process that exists.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The \uppTemp{TCP_Host} and \uppTemp{TCP_Client} were designed such that there will be a single process of both respectively for each client process that exists.
```

This was designed to model the socket connection that is established between the host and a client.
Like in the \uppTemp{Client}, this happens by having an \uppVar{clientId} as a parameter for when the process is instantiated.

> As seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-tcp-client} and \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-tcp-host}, the TCP templates will stay in a \uppLoc{Start} location until they receive an \uppSync{input syncronization} from either a \uppTemp{Host} or \uppTemp{Client}.

Reviewer 3: når vi skriver synchronization i uppaal ting er det med z, har set de før i tekstensom synchronisation når det ikke er direkte i de der \upp. Er det bare sådan vi lever med det?

> The \uppTemp{TCP_Host} and \uppTemp{TCP_Client} will then begin to initialize a 3-way handshake to ensure that both parties are ready for transferring data between them.

Reviewer 3: hvis vi skriver synchronisation skal vi vel skrive initialise også for at være true brit 🤔 ?

> Once the handshake has been completed, the \uppTemp{TCP_Host} will send a message to the \uppTemp{Host} to inform that a new player has been connected via the \uppIn{TCP_client_connected} synchronization, and then enter an \uppLoc{Idle} location to indicate that it is ready to send messages.

Reviewer 3: her har vi noget synchronization udenfor \upp 😡

Likewise, in the \uppTemp{TCP_Client}, after the handshake is completed it will inform the \uppTemp{Client} that a connection has been successfully established, and enter an idle state where it is ready to receive messages.

\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{sprint4/TCP_client.png}
    \caption{The TCP\_client template of the \uppaal model.}
    \label{fig:sprint4-uppaal-tcp-client}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{sprint4/TCP_host.png}
    \caption{The TCP\_host template of the \uppaal model.}
    \label{fig:sprint4-uppaal-tcp-host}
\end{figure}

% UDP
\subsection{UDP host templates}
The final template seen in \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-udp-host} is the \uppTemp{UDP_host}.
It is very simple as it waits until the \uppOut{Host} communicates that the games has started through \uppIn{UDP_start}.

> When the \uppTemp{UDP_host} has started it waits for a \uppIn{UDP_send} synchronisation from the host and then notifies the \uppTemp{Clients} through the \uppOut{read_UDP_buffer} synchronisation that they should read the global buffer.

Reviewer 3: double synchronisation reeeeee

Reviewer 3: vi skal nok egentligt have defineret en synchronistion i intro til uppaal btw

\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics{sprint4/UDP_host.png}
    \caption{The UPD\_host template of the \uppaal model.}
    \label{fig:sprint4-uppaal-udp-host}
\end{figure}

% Trace example of the system
\subsection{Happy simulation trace}

> A happy simulation trace can be seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-happy-trace}.

Reviewer: Hvad er et happy trace?

Reviewer 3: det er det jeg efterlader efter jeg prøver vr goggles

Reviewer 3: haha jeg er sjov lol

> A happy simulation trace can be seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-happy-trace}.

Reviewer 3: Beskriv lige hvad et happy trace er defineret som

As seen on the trace \uppTemp{Client(0)} first connects through the threeway handshake without any timeouts.

> \uppTemp{Client(1)} Then also connects through threeway handshake without any timeouts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
\uppTemp{Client(1)} then also connects through threeway handshake without any timeouts.
```

> Finally the after both of the clients are in \uppLoc{Lobby} the \uppTemp{Host} transitions to \uppLoc{InGame}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Finally, after both of the clients are in the \uppLoc{Lobby}, the \uppTemp{Host} transitions to \uppLoc{InGame}.
```

\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{sprint4/connected-trace.png}

>     \caption{Example of a trace where both Clients connect without any problems}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    \caption{Example of a trace where both Clients connect without any problems.}
```

    \label{fig:sprint4-happy-trace}
\end{figure}

> \subsection{Trace with a timeout}

Reviewer 4: Kunne godt tænke mig lidt mere forklaring på de to sidste figurerer

Reviewer 4: Og hvad de kan bruges til

A trace where it times out once while connecting can be seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-timeout-trace}.

> \uppTemp{Client(1)} connects without any issues, but \uppTemp{Client(0)} times out once while connecing.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
\uppTemp{Client(1)} connects without any issues, but \uppTemp{Client(0)} times out once while connecting.
```

> This can be seen on the trace of \uppTemp{TCP_client(0)}. When it sends the \uppOut{tcp_sync[0]} it timesout because it doesn't get are response from the \uppTemp{TCP_host(1)}.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This can be seen on the trace of \uppTemp{TCP_client(0)}. When it sends the \uppOut{tcp_sync[0]} it timesout because it does not get a response from the \uppTemp{TCP_host(1)}.
```

> This can be seen on the trace of \uppTemp{TCP_client(0)}. When it sends the \uppOut{tcp_sync[0]} it timesout because it doesn't get are response from the \uppTemp{TCP_host(1)}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This can be seen on the trace of \uppTemp{TCP_client(0)}.
When it sends the \uppOut{tcp_sync[0]} it times out because it does not get any response from the \uppTemp{TCP_host(1)}.
```

It then resends the message successfully and continues with connecting.
\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{sprint4/timeout-trace.png}

>     \caption{Example of a trace where the \uppTemp{TCP_host} times out one while connecting.}

Reviewer 3: times out one? ved ikke helt om jeg følger den beskrivelse

\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{sprint4/Host.png}
    \caption{The Host template of the \uppaal model.}
    \label{fig:sprint4-uppaal-host}
\end{figure}
\begin{uppaalcode}[caption={local Host declarations}, label={lst:sprint-4-host-code},captionpos=b]

int connected_clients = 0;
int local_TCP_buffer;
int i = 0;
\end{uppaalcode}

% Client
\subsection{Client template}
Like the \uppTemp{Host} template, the \uppTemp{Client} has a local declaration for saving the data it reads from the global buffer.
Since it is desirable to have a variable amount of instances, the template has an \uppType{id_t} parameter called \uppVar{id}, to allow instantiating multiple client processes.
The \uppTemp{Client} has four named locations, as seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-client}, which correspond to the states that the actual implementation can be in.
First off, the process starts in an \uppLoc{Initial} location, which then uses the \uppOut{TCP_connect[id]} to make the \uppTemp{TCP_client(id)} start connecting through TCP and transition to \uppLoc{Connecting}.

> The \uppProc{Client(id)} recieves \uppIn{TCP_connected[id]} synchronization when the \uppProc{TCP_client(i)} has connected and it then transitions to the \uppLoc{Lobby} location.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The \uppProc{Client(id)} receives \uppIn{TCP_connected[id]} synchronization when the \uppProc{TCP_client(i)} has connected and it then transitions to the \uppLoc{Lobby} location.
```

> Everytime it recieves a \uppIn{read_TCP_buffer[id]} it means that the \uppTemp{Host} sent a message.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Everytime it receives a \uppIn{read_TCP_buffer[id]} it means that the \uppTemp{Host} sent a message.
```

> It then transitions to an in-between location and then either transition back to \uppLoc{lobby} or to \uppLoc{InGame} depending on what message is received.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
It then transitions to an in-between location and then either transitions back to \uppLoc{lobby} or to \uppLoc{InGame} depending on what message is received.
```

\end{figure}

% TCP
\subsection{TCP host and client templates}
The \uppTemp{TCP_Host} and \uppTemp{TCP_Client} were designed such that there will be a single process of both respectively for each client process that exists.
This was designed to model the socket connection that is established between the host and a client.
Like in the \uppTemp{Client}, this happens by having an \uppVar{clientId} as a parameter for when the process is instantiated.
As seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-tcp-client} and \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-tcp-host}, the TCP templates will stay in a \uppLoc{Start} location until \uppProc{TCP_client} receive an \uppIn{TCP_connect[id]} synchronization from a \uppProc{Client}.
The \uppTemp{TCP_Host} and \uppTemp{TCP_Client} will then begin to initialize a 3-way handshake to ensure that both parties are ready for transferring data between them.
Once the handshake has been completed, the \uppTemp{TCP_Host} will send a message to the \uppTemp{Host} to inform that a new player has been connected via the \uppOut{TCP_client_connected} synchronization, and then enter an \uppLoc{Idle} location to indicate that it is ready to send messages.

> Likewise, in the \uppTemp{TCP_Client}, after the handshake is completed it will inform the \uppTemp{Client} that a connection has been successfully established with the \uppOut{TCP_connected[id]} synchronization, and transition to the \uppLoc{Idle} Location where it is ready to receive messages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Likewise, in the \uppTemp{TCP_Client}, after the handshake is completed it will inform the \uppTemp{Client} that a connection has been successfully established with the \uppOut{TCP_connected[id]} synchronization, and transition to the \uppLoc{Idle} location where it is ready to receive messages.
```

It is very simple as it waits until the \uppOut{Host} communicates that the games has started through \uppIn{UDP_start}.
When the \uppTemp{UDP_host} has started it waits for a \uppIn{UDP_send} synchronization from the host and then notifies the \uppTemp{Clients} through the \uppOut{read_UDP_buffer} synchronization that they should read the global buffer.
\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics{sprint4/UDP_host.png}
    \caption{The UPD\_host template of the \uppaal model.}
    \label{fig:sprint4-uppaal-udp-host}
\end{figure}

% Trace example of the system
\subsection{Perfect scenario simulation trace}
A simulation trace where everything goes perfectly and no timeouts happen can be seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-happy-trace}.
As seen on the trace \uppTemp{Client(0)} first connects through the threeway handshake without any timeouts.
\uppTemp{Client(1)} then also connects through three-way handshake without any timeouts.
Finally, after both of the clients are in the \uppLoc{Lobby}, the \uppTemp{Host} transitions to \uppLoc{InGame}.
\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{sprint4/connected-trace.png}

>     \caption{Example of a trace where both Clients connect without any problems.}

Reviewer 3: enten skal Clients skrives med småt eller også skal vi gøre ligesom i captionen til figuren med timeout trace hvor vi bruger uppproc

As seen on the trace \uppTemp{Client(0)} first connects through the threeway handshake without any timeouts.
\uppTemp{Client(1)} then also connects through three-way handshake without any timeouts.
Finally, after both of the clients are in the \uppLoc{Lobby}, the \uppTemp{Host} transitions to \uppLoc{InGame}.
\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{sprint4/connected-trace.png}
    \caption{Example of a trace where both Clients connect without any problems.}
    \label{fig:sprint4-happy-trace}
\end{figure}

\subsection{Trace with a timeout}
A trace where it times out once while connecting can be seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-timeout-trace}.
\uppTemp{Client(1)} connects without any issues, but \uppTemp{Client(0)} times out once while connecting.
This can be seen on the trace of \uppTemp{TCP_client(0)}. When it sends the \uppOut{tcp_sync[0]} it times out because it does not get a response from the \uppTemp{TCP_host(1)}.
It then resends the message successfully and continues with connecting.
\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{sprint4/timeout-trace.png}

>     \caption{Example of a trace where the \uppTemp{TCP_host} times out one while connecting.}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \caption{Example of a trace where a \uppProc{TCP_host} times out while connecting.}
```

This led to the previous \uppaal model specified in \autoref{sec:sprint3-uppaal} being outdated, and that it had to be updated to fit the new requirements.
\\
Additionally, the previous model focused mostly on the flow of the program and did not properly take the network part of the system into account.
In this new model, the system will consist of four parts: The host, which is meant to represent the Python program that the game facilitator uses, an arbitrary number of clients who have connected to the game, and the UDP and TCP connection between those.

\subsection{System declarations}
\begin{uppaalcode}[caption={System declarations}, label={lst:uppaal4:systemdecl},captionpos=b]
    system UDP_host, TCP_host, TCP_client, Host, Client;
\end{uppaalcode}
The project consists of five templates: \uppTemp{Host}, \uppTemp{Client}, \uppTemp{TCP_client}, \uppTemp{TCP_host}, \uppTemp{UDP_host}.
As mentioned above, the \uppTemp{Host} and \uppTemp{Client} templates are meant to represent the interface that users interact with when using the system.

> In this new version of the model, the inclusion of \uppTemp{TCP_clients}, \uppTemp{TCP_hosts}, and a \uppTemp{UDP_host} allows us to model the behavior of the network aspect of the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this new version of the model, the inclusion of \uppTemp{TCP_client}s, \uppTemp{TCP_host}s, and a \uppTemp{UDP_host} allows us to model the behavior of the network aspect of the system.
```

% System declerations
\subsection{Global declarations}
The global declarations (seen on \autoref{lst:uppaal4:globaldecl}) for the system have two purposes: Setting game and simulation specific options, such as how many clients should be instantiated, or how long the TCP client should wait for a response before declaring the connection as timed out.
\\
To facilitate data transfer between the templates, the model makes use of global buffers.
Each place in the \uppVar{TCP_buffer} array corresponds to a buffer related to a \uppTemp{Client} or \uppTemp{Host} process so that \uppProc(Client(0)) will read from index 0 of the array, \uppProc(Client(1)) will read from index 1 and so on.
The \uppVar{host} variable is saved as an alias to know which space in the buffers is reserved for messages from clients to the host.
Since the \uppVar{UDP_buffer} is supposed to correspond to a multicast, it is simply saved as an integer instead, which will hold the information that any client listening to the multicast will receive. 
Finally, a series of channels are defined.

> The channels are used to synchronize between the different processes.
> Where they are used will be explained when we describe each template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The channels are used to synchronize between the different processes and will be further explained when going into details about each template.
```

\uppVar{connected_clients} which it uses to keep track of how many clients have connected, \uppVar{local_TCP_buffer} which is where the contents of the global TCP buffer is copied into and \uppVar{i} which it uses to keep track of how many messages it has sent. 
The template seen in \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-host} can be divided into three sections.
In the first section the host waits for the clients to connect through TCP.

> Everytime a \uppTemp{Client} has connected the Host receives a \uppIn{TCP_client_connected} synchronization and \uppVar{connected_client} is incremented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every time a \uppTemp{Client} has connected the \uppTemp{Host} receives a \uppIn{TCP_client_connected} synchronization and \uppVar{connected_client} is incremented.
```

When all of the \uppTemp{Clients} have connected the \uppTemp{Host} moves on the next section.
In this section the \uppTemp{Host} uses the \uppOut{TCP_send} synchronization to notify each \uppTemp{Client} that the game is starting through TCP.
Finally the \uppTemp{Host} is in-game and continuously sends messages to the \uppTemp{Clients}.

> This is done through either \uppOut{TCP_send} synchronization or \uppOut{UDP_send} synchronization which are the TCP and UDP channels respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is done through either \uppOut{TCP_send} or \uppOut{UDP_send} which are the TCP and UDP channels respectively.
```

\subsection{Client template}
Like the \uppTemp{Host} template, the \uppTemp{Client} has a local declaration for saving the data it reads from the global buffer.
Since it is desirable to have a variable amount of instances, the template has an \uppType{id_t} parameter called \uppVar{id}, to allow instantiating multiple client processes.

> The \uppTemp{Client} has four named locations, as seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-client}, which corresponds to the states that the actual implementation can be in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The \uppTemp{Client} has four named locations, as seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-client}, which correspond to the states that the actual implementation can be in.
```

> \uppLoc{Initial} is the initial location of the \uppTemp{Client}.
> It then uses the \uppOut{TCP_connect[id]} to make the \uppTemp{TCP_client(id)} start connecting through TCP and transition to the \uppLoc{Connecting} location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First off, the process starts in an \uppLoc{Initial} location, which then uses the \uppOut{TCP_connect[id]} to make the \uppTemp{TCP_client(id)} start connecting through TCP and transition to \uppLoc{Connecting}.
```

> The \uppTemp{Client(id)} recieves \uppIn{TCP_connected[id]} synchronization when the \uppTemp{TCP_client(i)} has connected and it then transitions to the \uppLoc{Lobby} location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The \uppProc{Client(id)} recieves \uppIn{TCP_connected[id]} synchronization when the \uppProc{TCP_client(i)} has connected and it then transitions to the \uppLoc{Lobby} location.
```

Everytime it recieves a \uppIn{read_TCP_buffer[id]} it means that the \uppTemp{Host} sent a message.

> It then transitions to an in-between location and then either transition back to \uppLoc{lobby} or to \uppLoc{InGame} depending on what message it received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It then transitions to an in-between location and then either transition back to \uppLoc{lobby} or to \uppLoc{InGame} depending on what message is received.
```

The in-between location is a committed location.

> This is done so that the \uppTemp{Client(id)} has to transition from it immediately instead of waiting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is done so that the \uppProc{Client(id)} has to transition from it immediately instead of waiting.
```

% TCP
\subsection{TCP host and client templates}
The \uppTemp{TCP_Host} and \uppTemp{TCP_Client} were designed such that there will be a single process of both respectively for each client process that exists.
This was designed to model the socket connection that is established between the host and a client.
Like in the \uppTemp{Client}, this happens by having an \uppVar{clientId} as a parameter for when the process is instantiated.

> As seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-tcp-client} and \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-tcp-host}, the TCP templates will stay in a \uppLoc{Start} location until \uppTemp{TCP_client} receive an \uppIn{TCP_connect[id]} synchronization from a \uppTemp{Client}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-tcp-client} and \autoref{fig:sprint4-uppaal-tcp-host}, the TCP templates will stay in a \uppLoc{Start} location until \uppProc{TCP_client} receive an \uppIn{TCP_connect[id]} synchronization from a \uppProc{Client}.
```

\end{figure}

% Trace example of the system
\subsection{Perfect scenario simulation trace}
A simulation trace where everything goes perfectly and no timeouts happen can be seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-happy-trace}.
As seen on the trace \uppTemp{Client(0)} first connects through the threeway handshake without any timeouts.
\uppTemp{Client(1)} then also connects through three-way handshake without any timeouts.
Finally, after both of the clients are in the \uppLoc{Lobby}, the \uppTemp{Host} transitions to \uppLoc{InGame}.
\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{sprint4/connected-trace.png}
    \caption{Example of a trace where both Clients connect without any problems.}
    \label{fig:sprint4-happy-trace}
\end{figure}

\subsection{Trace with a timeout}
A trace where it times out once while connecting can be seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-timeout-trace}.
\uppTemp{Client(1)} connects without any issues, but \uppTemp{Client(0)} times out once while connecting.

> This can be seen on the trace of \uppTemp{TCP_client(0)}. When it sends the \uppOut{tcp_sync[0]} it times out because it does not get a response from the \uppTemp{TCP_host(1)}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be seen on the trace of \uppProc{TCP_client(0)}. When it sends the \uppOut{tcp_sync[0]} it times out because it does not get a response from the \uppProc{TCP_host(1)}.
```
